docs: cert renewal airgap (#2883)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/cluster-management/certificate-renewal.md

---
sidebar_label: "Renew Certificates for Air-gap Clusters"
title: "Renew Certificates for Air-gap Clusters"
description: "Learn how to renew certificates for different Kubernetes components in your cluster."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 80
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

> Kubernetes uses certificates to secure the communication between different components of a cluster. Using these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes uses SSL certificates to secure the communication between different components of a cluster. Using these
```

certificates allows Kubernetes to secure API connections, verify the authenticity of the nodes, and encrypt connections.
All certificates have an expiry date, and need to be renewed periodically.

This page guides you through the different methods used to renew certificates in an air-gapped Palette Edge cluster. An
air-gapped cluster means a cluster that has no connection to a Palette instance.

## Limitations

- The procedure described in this guide only renews certificates for control plane nodes. Certificate renewal for worker
  nodes is not supported.
- The certificates used are generated by Kubernetes. You cannot use your own certificates.

## Automatic Renewal

> Palette Edge will automatically renew all certificates used by your cluster for you 30 days before they expire. You can
> follow the steps below to check when the next automatic renewal will happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette Edge will automatically renew all control plane certificates your cluster uses for you 30 days before they expire. You can
follow the steps below to check when the next automatic renewal will happen.
```

Simplified the sentence and clarified what "all" means to not generate confusion.

3. Select the **Overview** tab on the **Cluster** page.

4. In **Overview**, click **View Certificates** in the **Kubernetes Certificates** row. This will display all the
   certificates currently in use by your cluster.

5. Click **Renew** to renew all certificates used by the cluster.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API" value="api">

1. Issue the following command to call the Edge Management authentication API. Replace `edge-host-ip` with the IP of
   your Edge host and replace `os-username` and `os-password` with your Operating System (OS) user credentials.

   ```shell
   curl --location 'https://edge-host-ip:5080/v1/users/default/login' \
   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   --data '{
      "username": "os-username",
      "password": "os-password"
   }'
   ```

   This will return an authentication token.

   ```json
   {
     "Token": {
       "Authorization": "******"
     }
   }
   ```

2. Issue the following command to call the endpoint to renew your control plane node certificates. Put the
   authentication token you obtained in the previous step in the header.

   ```shell
   curl -X POST "https://edge-host-ip:5080/v1/edge-mgmt/cluster/renew-certificates" \

>      -H "Cookie: Authorization=*******"

Reviewer: We should not use a cookie header. We should use the authorization header
```
--header "Authorization: $TOKEN" 
```

Author: For the Edge Management API, the authorization header does not work. I have tested this and it needs to use the cookie header.
